# DNAS
Exhaustive Exploitation of Deep Learning for Cancer Patient Stratification in an Automated Manner

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a frequently fatal disease that is wide spread throughout the world. According to the WHO GLOBOCAN database, globally CRC is the third and second most frequently diagnosed cancer in men and women respectively. Recent analytical frameworks based on deep learning have been developed to identify colorectal cancer subtypes from cancer gene expression profiles. Unfortunately, the performance of deep learning is highly dependent on its neural network architectures, which are often hand-crafted by humans with expertise in deep neural networks (DNNs), and that is not necessarily available to every interested user. To address such limitation, we propose DNAS, a fully-automated deep neural architecture search model for diagnosing consensus molecular subtypes from colorectal cancer data. We validated DNAS on eight colorectal cancer datasets  achieving the average accuracy of 95.48\%, the average specificity of 98.07\%, and the average sensitivity of 96.24\%, respectively. Subsequently, we investigated the  general applicability of DNAS on different platform data and other cancer types including lung cancer and breast cancer. The DNAS achieved an area under the curve of 95\% and 96\% for identifying the intrinsic subtypes of lung cancer and breast cancer. In addition, we conducted gene ontology enrichment and pathological analysis to reveal novel insights into cancer subtype identification and characterization.
